These objects can be uniquely characterized by spin, charge, and mass, according to the no-hair theorem.   
They can form by the gravitational collapse of a star, and have an event horizon. For 10 points, name
these objects whose gravity is so strong that light cannot escape from them.
*black hole
In this stateʹs north, a dam on the Tallahatchie River creates Sardis Lake. Its southern
coast includes the cities of Gulfport and Biloxi, and its western border is home to Natchez
and Vicksburg. Louisiana and Alabama border—for 10 points—what state whose capital is Jackson?
*mississippi
This man defeated Vercingetorix at the Battle of Alesia ,after which he wrote
Commentaries on the Gallic Wars. He defeated Pompey at the Battle of Pharsalus ,a year
after his army crossed the Rubicon River. For 10 points—name this Roman dictator who was
assassinated on the Ides of March.
*julius caesar
This company was sued in August 2015 over its two‐step verification process, which is used on products such
as FaceTime. Its CEO Tim Cook announced the launch date for its next phone, the 6s. For 10
points—name this largest U.S. company by share value, which makes the iPhone.
*apple
This composerʹs 40th symphony is nicknamed the “Great G minor” symphony, and his “Piano Sonata No. 11”
ends with a “Rondo alla turca” . He wrote piano variations on “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little
Star.” Eine kleine Nachtmusik was created by—for 10 points—what 18th‐century
Austrian composer?
*mozart
In the Cori cycle, the liver exports this compound after producing it from lactic acid. Two of this
molecule combine to form maltose, and polymers of it include starch and cellulose.   
For 10 points—name this monosaccharide whose levels in the blood are elevated in diabetic
patients.
*glucose
In 1930 this tournament debuted with the host country, Uruguay, emerging as champions. In 2014 Mario
Götze scored the winning goal in this tournament for Germany. Brazil was the most recent host
of—for 10 points—what menʹs soccer tournament administered every four years by FIFA?
*fifa world cup
Letters from a Farmer in this state were written by John Dickinson, who represented it in the Continental
Congress. President George Washington led troops in this state during the Whiskey Rebellion. For 10
points—name this state where the Constitutional Convention met in Philadelphia.
*pennsylvania
This author wrote about the lovers Catherine Barkley and Frederic Henry, who meet during World War I in A
Farewell to Arms. He won a Pulitzer Prize for a novella about Santiago, a fisherman whose prize marlin is
eaten by sharks. For 10 points—name this author of The Old Man and the Sea.
*ernest hemmingway
One of these creatures is stolen from Judd Travers in a novel by Phyllis Naylor. One of these animals that
has a clock in his belly is named Tock and befriends Milo in The Phantom Tollbooth. Shiloh 
is—for 10 points—what type of animal that includes Clifford, who is a big, red one?
*dog
When preceded by “abstract,” this word means a branch of mathematics concerned with rings, fields, and
groups. The adjective form of this word refers to numbers that are the roots of polynomials with integer
coefficients and are not transcendental. Every nth‐degree polynomial has n complex roots according to the
”fundamental theorem” of—for 10 points—what branch of mathematics concerned with equations and
variables?
*algebra
The protagonist of this film goes with a farmer to fix a broken water pump before the farmerʹs home is
attacked by forces from Transigen, a biotech company. One character in this film suffers dangerous seizures
due to his advanced age, though he compels the protagonist to aid Laura, a subject of the X‐23 project. A
young mutant is taken to Canada in—for 10 points—what final film starring Hugh Jackman as Wolverine?
*logan
This school won the first 64‐team men's NCAA basketball tournament by beating Georgetown as
an 8‐seed. Hall‐of‐Famer Paul Arizin played for this school, as did Torontoʹs Kyle Lowry. During
an April 2016 game, this schoolʹs Kris Jenkins hit a buzzer‐beater to defeat UNC. A 2017 tournament
loss to Wisconsin in the second round knocked out—for 10 points—what Big East university that was defending
its 2016 championship?
*villanova
This substance is called mevushal if it has been boiled so it canʹt be used in idol worship. In
the Jewish circumcision ritual, this substance is used as an anaesthetic. At the end of Shabbat, a
candle is dipped in this substance to put it out. At the Passover seder, participants consume four
servings of this substance. On Friday night, Jews bless bread and recite kiddush over—for 10
points—what alcoholic drink?
*wine
In curling, the center circle of the house is known by this term. The initial segment of a rattlesnakeʹs rattle
has this name. In the childrenʹs book Corduroy [KOR-duh-roy], the title teddy bear is not bought because his
overalls are missing one of these things. A man with this surname ages backwards in an F. Scott
Fitzgerald story about a ”curious case.” For 10 points—what word follows ”belly” in a common name for the
navel?
*button
This modern‐day countryʹs fight for freedom is the topic of C. L. R. Jamesʹs book The Black Jacobins.    
After defeating French troops who were weakened by yellow fever, Jean‐Jacques Dessalines
declared this nationʹs independence. Napoleon sold Louisiana after failing to reclaim
this former sugar colony. Toussaint LʹOuverture led a slave revolt in—for 10
points—what Caribbean country that borders the Dominican Republic?
*haiti
For many solids, at high temperatures this quantityʹs value per mole is roughly 3 times the universal gas
constant R, according to the Dulong‐Petit law. For a monatomic ideal gas, the
constant‐volume molar value of this quantity is 3/2 times R. This quantity can be measured in
units of joules per kelvin. For 10 points—name this quantity, which is the energy needed to raise a
materialʹs temperature by one degree.
*heat capcity
This thinker cited the lack of reciprocity between “civilized peoples” and “barbarians” as one justification
for imperialism in his essay “A Few Words on Non-Intervention.” He argued that the “legal subordination
of one sex to another” is “wrong in itself” in a work written with Harriet Taylor. This author of The
Subjection of Women wrote a treatise that discusses the greatest happiness principle. For 10 points—name this
English philosopher who wrote On Liberty and Utilitarianism. 
*john sturat mill
In a poem by Seamus Heaney, this title creature is expected "like a visitor," and is said to be
“intent and glamorous.” The title of a novel by the Cuban author Reinaldo Arenas refers to the
“palace” of a “white” variety of these animals. The speaker says “I myself am hell, nobody's here” in a
poem in which one of these animals “jabs her wedge-head in a cup of sour cream” and “will not scare.” Robert
Lowell wrote a poem about the “hour” of—for 10 points—what garbage-eating creatures with “white stripes”?
*skunks
In the 2012 NBA Draft, a player with this surname was selected tenth overall with a pick acquired in the
Chris Paul trade by the same team that also took Anthony Davis first overall. That player with this surname
joined Coby Karl on an exclusive list after a 2015 trade. A coach with this surname espouses the “ubuntu”
philosophy and convinced DeAndre Jordan to stay with his team in 2015. For 10 points—give this
surname of guard Austin and his father and coach as a member of the Clippers, Doc. 
*rivers
In this state, Louisiana congressman Hale Boggs was killed in a plane crash along with one of this state's
congressmen and never found. The Pentagon Papers were read into the Congressional Record by a senator
from this state. Another senator from this state, who lost a 2008 election shortly after being found guilty of
corruption charges, called the Internet a “series of tubes.” Mike Gravel was a senator from—for 10
points—what state that was also represented in the Senate by Ted Stevens? 
*alaska
Richard Thaler's study of these events showed that, under incomplete information, they can lead to a “curse.”
The application of game theory to these events yielded the revenue equivalence theorem of William Vickrey.
Ronald Coase suggested that the electromagnetic spectrum should be allocated in one of these events.
These events, which come in “English” and “Dutch” subtypes, can uncover buyers' unknown true values for a
good. For 10 points—name these events in which people bid to buy goods. 
*auctions
The model EEF1 describes these compounds in implicit solvents. These compounds are modeled by
Lifson-Roig theory, a modification of the more general Zimm-Bragg theory. Analytical characterization of
these compounds involves reagents such as FDNB or phenylisothiocyanate.   
The rapid rate of their spontaneous conformational changes is the subject of Levinthalʹs paradox. These
moleculesʹ phi and psi angles are the axes of Ramachandran plots. For 10 points—name these polymers of
amino acids.
*proteins
This section of a novel includes an image of “divine goodness” drawing a curtain, then “twitching the cord”
to close it. In this section, a man keeps a candle lit late at night to read Virgil. A “mouldy” “beastʹs skull”
is discovered by Mrs. McNab in this section as she cleans an empty house. Prue dies after giving birth and
Andrew is blown up by a shell in—for 10 points—what section in which years of storms batter the Ramsaysʹ 
summer home, the second part of Virginia Woolfʹs To the Lighthouse?
*time passes
A study by Patricia Kuhl exposing infants to English and Swedish versions of these things showed that
prototypical ones exert a ”perceptual magnet effect.” A “Cardinal” system for classifying them, developed
by Daniel Jones, began the practice of charting them at spots on an upside‐down trapezoid. The Tiberian
niqqud represents these things. In English, a strict tense‐lax distinction and ”Canadian raising”
are two phenomena affecting—for 10 points—what sounds made using an open vocal tract?
*vowels
This phenomenon can be accompanied by a form of waves driven by van der Waals forces known as
”third sound.” The element in which it was discovered forms a ”Rollin film” of thickness 30 nanometers
that allows it to escape any open container. Many, but not all, Bose-Einstein condensates display this
phenomenon in which viscosity vanishes. For 10 points—name this “super” state exhibited by very cold
helium-3 and helium-4. 
*superfluidity
This English king lost his territories on the European continent after Otto IV lost to France at the
Battle of Bouvines. This successor to Richard the Lionheart was forced to grant additional power
to his barons in 1215. For 10 points—name this king who signed the Magna Carta
*king john
A player of this instrument used it on his album The Magic City, which he recorded
with his Big Band called the Arkestra. A song composed by a player of this instrument
states "I'm savin' my love for you" and is called "Ain't Misbehavin." The song "Tea for
Two" became a jazz standard when a virtuoso of this instrument recorded it in 1939.
The stride style of Fats Waller inspired Art Tatum's style of play of this instrument. A
player of this instrument joined Gene Wright, Joe Morello and Paul Desmond as part of a quartet that
recorded the album Time Out. Another player of it composed "'Round Midnight" as well as the hit
"Straight, No Chaser." For 10 points, Dave Brubeck and Thelonius Monk played what keyboard
instrument?
*piano
The negative of the partial derivative of the grand canonical ensemble with respect
to this quantity gives the average pressure. In the Diesel Cycle, this quantity is held
constant during the process that immediately follows isentropic expansion. For a
process in which this quantity is held constant, the work done on the system's
surroundings is always equal to zero; such a process is represented by a vertical line on an
indicator diagram. An isochoric process holds this quantity constant, which is also held constant in
Gay-Lussac's Law to illustrate the relationship between a gas's temperature and pressure. For 10
points, name this quantity which changes during thermal expansion, which is abbreviated V.
*volume
This non-European country's ancient artwork includes sculptures that are decorated
with powdered quartz over a vitreous substance called "faience." A motif of this
country's ancient art features names enclosed within an oval and a single horizontal
line, called a cartouche. This country's funereal art includes small sculptures called
ushabti, in which subjects were depicted with their arms folded across their chests. An
artwork from this country called the "Younger Memnon" depicts its subject wearing the
uraeus, a cobra symbol on top of the crown. A bust of one of its female rulers was found at Amarna in
1912. Statues at Abu Simbel can be found in, for 10 points, what country whose art includes
sarcophagi that have hieroglyphics inscribed on their covers?
*egypt
When Evan Priestley was part of this organization, he developed the Phabricator collaboration tool, which is used for code reviews. 
In 2013, this company acquired the Mobile-Backend-as-a Service provider Parse, but shut it down in January 2017, raising concerns 
about vendor lock-in. A publicly available framework initially developed by this company centers on "components" that implement the render 
method, and is a popular alternative to Angular for building UIs for Web apps. Another of this company's frameworks originally converted 
scripting code to C++, but now merely executes it using just-in-time compilation on a virtual machine. This company's 
projects include the JavaScript Library React, as well as the HipHop transpiler, allowing them to write a modi ed form of PHP. 
For 10 points, name this company whose social network service is centered on a user's "Timeline" 
and which has periodic updates announced by Mark Zuckerberg.
*facebook
A set of phrases named for this eponym consist of "The pipe began to rust while new" and "Move the vat over the hot fire," 
are often used to test Voice over IP systems, and are the namesake "sentences" of this institution. A system named after 
this eponym employs a "split cache" in a scheme where memory is treated as data. An actual computer named after this institution featured 
a relay which was home to a moth that became the first "computer bug." Grace Hopper worked on that computer, and this institution 
gives its name to a scheme that segregates data memory and instructions, allowing it to bypass another scheme's namesake "bottleneck." 
The Von Neumann computer architecture is often contrasted with, for 10 points, the computer architecture named for what Ivy League university?
*harvard
Thomas DiCiccio introduced a nonlinearity parameter in the ABC method of generating ranges that are calculated using this technique. 
Some versions of this technique's "wild" form makes use of a two-point function of the form "Y equals a times x plus one minus a times z" 
to generate desired quantities. Like a simpler linear method invented by John Tukey and Maurice Quenouille, this technique is 
essentially a direct application of the plug-in principle using values from an empirical function. Points have their values 
perturbed by a small amount of noise, often proportional to 1 over the square root of n in the "smooth" form of this technique. 
This technique was introduced by Bradley Efron as a way of correcting bias by generating many subsets of a given data set. It is 
a generalization of the jackknife method of simulating a sampling distribution. For 10 points, name this class of statistical 
techniques whose name refers to their ability to "pull" their user up.
*bootstrapping
This person is depicted kissing a black baby while walking down some steps in a
Thomas Hovenden painting depicting his "Last Moments." He was described as a
"meteor of the war" in Herman Melville's poem "The Portent." This man was painted
holding a rifle and a Bible in front of a tornado in a mural by John Steuart Curry, a
Regionalist from the state where this man was most active. Julia Ward Howe sanitized
the lyrics of a tune title for this man after his execution. In response to the sacking of Lawrence, this
man hacked five pro-slavery settlers to death in the Pottawatomie Massacre, during Bleeding Kansas.
In 1859, Robert E. Lee helped arrest this man in Virginia. For 10 points, name this radical abolitionist
who led a failed raid on Harpers Ferry.
*john brown
A character named for this sort of animal is lamented as a "true, wise friend" by the
sobbing protagonist. A character decides "next time there would be no mercy" after
finding one of these animals caught in some creepers but not using his knife fast
enough. Chants like "cut her throat! spill her blood!" accompany a ritual centered on
this kind of animal. The taunt "sucks to your ass-mar" is shouted at a character
nicknamed for this sort of animal whom Roger crushes at Castle Rock with a boulder. The head of one
of these animals claims to be the "Beast" during Simon's hallucination and is impaled on a stick by
Jack. For 10 points, a fat, bespectacled schoolboy is nicknamed for what sort of animal in William
Golding's The Lord of the Flies? 
*pigs or piggy
People with hypertension show flame hemorrhages in this structure. A certain cell
in this structure has two segments unusually connected by a single cilium. The absence
of a red reflex can indicate a tumor of this structure, caused by deletions in the RB
gene. Its inner plexiform layer contains projections from amacrine and bipolar cells.
One type of cell found in it has a cofactor that switches from all-trans to 11-cis form; that
cofactor is a vitamin A derivative bound to the protein rhodopsin. This structure, which contains
nerve fibers that merge with cranial nerve II, contains at its center the fovea. For 10 points, name this
structure containing rod and cone photoreceptors that signal the optic nerve, a light-sensitive
structure at the back of the eye. 
*retina
This president's party badly lost the midterm "beef steak election" after he
surprisingly lifted regulations on meat prices. This man faced the so-called "Revolt of
the Admirals," a Navy campaign against the use of strategic bombing. Philip White's
book Whistle Stop documents this man's effective cross-country campaign giving 352
speeches from a rail car. This president tried to combat his low approval ratings by
calling a special "Turnip Day" session of Congress. After Congress overrode his veto to
pass an act limiting the power of labor unions sponsored by Taft and Hartley, he attacked the "Do
Nothing Congress." The Chicago Tribune got the results of his close campaign against Thomas Dewey
wrong. For 10 points, name this Democratic president who succeeded FDR.
*harry truman
In preparation for these events, five crates of oranges and lemons arrive at their
location every Friday. After leaving one of these events, two men crash into a ditch
when the wheel of their car comes off. During one of these events, a character exclaims
"this fella's a regular Belasco!" while examining books in a library; that character is
nicknamed for his owl-eyed spectacles. A cheating golf champion named Jordan Baker is told
"amazing things" at one of these events. Music like "Jazz History of the World" plays at these events,
which occur in a mansion that lies across the bay from a green dock light in West Egg. For 10 points,
name these events attended by Nick Carraway and hosted by the title character of F. Scott Fitzgerald's
The Great Gatsby.
*parties
This city's name became the nickname of a series of quartets by Georg Philipp
Telemann because those quartets became popular here. A treatise that claimed to have
found the "fundamental bass" of Western music, the Treatise on Harmony, was
published in this city where, in the 1750s, a pamphlet war about the merits of two
different countries' styles of music called the "War of the Buffoons" broke out. Mozart's
Symphony No. 31 is nicknamed for this city, which titles a symphonic poem that features
four taxi horns. A riot broke out at the premiere of The Rite of Spring in this national capital. George
Gershwin wrote a tone poem about an "American in" this city. For 10 points, name this European
capital whose conservatory taught Claude Debussy.
*paris
In the 1940s, this musician protested the war movement with the album Songs for
John Doe and performed in many "hootenannies" as part of the Almanac Singers. After
this musician was "discovered" by Alan Lomax, he recorded the songs on the album
Dust Bowl Ballads. The 18 minute talking blues song "Alice's Restaurant Massacree"
was recorded by his son Arlo. In his autobiography Bound for Glory, this musician
described his use of a guitar that had the phrase "this machine kills fascists" scrawled on it. A song
written by this man describes the title location "From California to the New York island; / From the
red wood forest to the Gulf Stream waters." For 10 points, name this American folk singer, who wrote
"This Land is Your Land."
*Woody Guthrie
This person came up with his most famous innovation on the way to a tutoring job
offered by fellow Yale alum Phineas Miller. This man received funding from Nathanael
Greene's widow, Catharine. Edwin Battison argued that a milling machine used in this
man's New Haven factory was really the brainchild of Simeon North. This man
supposedly met with President Adams and President-Elect Jefferson and wowed them
by assembling a musket from a drawer of shuffled pieces he had manufactured. He unsuccessfully
demanded 40% of the revenue from material produced by his best known invention. A contract to
produce $134,000 worth of guns with his interchangeable parts system helped him pursue patent
litigation against Southern farmers. For 10 points, name this inventor of the cotton gin.
*eli whitney
Binary space partitioning is often done using the "oct-" variant of these entities.
Hidden surface removal can often be done with the "quad-" variant of them. The order
of elements varies when performing a depth-first traversal of these things depending
on whether the traversal is pre-order, post-order or in-order. They are isomorphic to
directed acyclic graphs. Georgy Adelson-Velsky and Evgenii Landis developed the selfbalancing
"AVL" variant of these structures, which use "rotations" when a new element is added
to one of them. Two "children" can be found at the bottom of every level in the "complete binary" type
of these structures. For 10 points, name these data structures which begin with a root node, and
whose lowest level nodes are called leaves. 
*tree
Diogenes Laertius states that this man abdicated the kingship in favor of his brother,
and that he convinced the tyrant Melanka to abdicate. This thinker, whose thought is
preserved in approximately 100 "fragments," stated "strife is justice" and "the way up
and the way down are the same" to emphasize a "unity of opposites." This native of
Ephesus was called the "weeping philosopher" due to a melancholy that made him
unable to finish his works. This philosopher wrote that "logos" is the origin of all things. His
saying panta rhei, or "everything flows" is often analogized to stepping in the same river twice. For 10
points, what ancient philosopher suggested that the universe was always changing and that fire was
the origin of everything?
*heraclitus
This artist is depicted walking on water as other artists watch from a boat in Mark
Tansey's The Myth of Depth. At the center of a painting by this artist originally titled
Moby Dick is a female with three white breast-like protrusions possibly giving birth to
the Minotaur. He painted a twenty-foot wide Mural for Peggy Guggenheim's apartment.
A series of photographs of this artist at work were first published in Portfolio magazine
by Hans Namuth. This student of Thomas Hart Benton was married to fellow painter Lee
Krasner. One of his canvases is divided by the seven title Blue Poles. This artist is best known for his
all-over paintings such as Autumn Rhythm and Lavender Mist. For 10 points, name this Abstract
Expressionist nicknamed "Jack the Dripper."
*jackson pollock
This character is convinced that he is flying through the air when he is blindfolded
and put on a wooden horse stuffed with firecrackers. This character encounters a man
who had cut out his friend's heart during a vision he has while hanging from a rope in
Montesinos's Cave. After attempting to free some galley slaves, this character meets a
wild man driven mad by Luscinda's marriage, Cardenio. This character's library is
burned by a barber and the priest Dr. Perez. He fights Samson Carrasco in the guises of the Knight of
the Wood and the Knight of the White Moon, and he searches for his idealized love Dulcinea. For 10
points, name this "ingenious gentleman" who tilts at windmills and adventures with Sancho Panza in
a Miguel de Cervantes novel.
*don quixote
The ratio of two isotopes of this element is calibrated using troilite from the Canyon Diablo Meteorite.
This element's namesake cycle begins with assimilative and dissimilative reduction from organic material
until it is re-incorporated into organic matter. The removal of this element from fossil fuels can be done
with the Claus process. A column of superheated water is used to extract this element in the Frasch
process. It is found bonded to lead in the mineral galena. An acid of this element is often naturally formed by
weathering pyrite; along with nitric acid, that acid is the principal component of acid rain. For 10 points, name this
element that is responsible for the smell of brimstone and whose odor is reminiscent of rotten eggs.
*sulfur
The Tur Halakhic law code developed in this present-day country outlined divisions of law that
correspond to each of the four rows of jewels on the priestly breastplate. A rabbi born in this country
declared giving money out of pity to be the lowest form of charity, and articulated thirteen principles of
faith. The Xueta community of crypto-Jews arose in this country, the birthplace of the author who traveled
throughout the Middle East before writing his namesake Mishnah Torah. Jews living in this country
developed the language Ladino, and were called "marranos" after converting to Christianity. Most Sephardic
communities developed in this country. For 10 points, name this country, from where Jews were expelled in 1492
via the Alhambra Decree issued by Ferdinand and Isabella. 
*spain
This character is deeply affected by the performance of a barbershop quartet called the Four-Eyed
Bastards at his eighteenth anniversary party. He has a vision of "Adam and Eve in the golden depths"
while staring at a pair of boots taken from Roland Weary, who later convinces Paul Lazzaro to kill this
character. This character attends the Ilium School of Optometry and marries Valencia Merble after he is
released from the mental hospital where Eliot Rosewater introduces him to the novels of Kilgore Trout, and
he has a child with Montana Wildhack after being abducted by aliens from Tralfamadore. For 10 points, name this
character who survives the firebombing of Dresden and becomes "unstuck in time", the protagonist of Kurt
Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five.
*billy pilgrim
This man dropped Mola Ram to his death by cutting a rope bridge while he himself was still standing on it;
later he married Marion Ravenwood after learning he had a son, Henry III, who went by “Mutt.”   
For 10 points—name this heroic archaeologist who often relies on a whip.
*indiana jones
This document was intercepted by Room 40 as it was passed from a foreign secretary to ambassador Heinrich
von Eckhardt. Germany promised to return portions of the southwestern U.S. to Mexico in exchange for
an alliance in World War I in—for 10 points—what intercepted “telegram?”
*zimmermann telegrams
In a pair of works, this thinker criticized Robert Filmerʹs Patriarcha and argued for the labor
theory of property while presenting a benign depiction of the state of nature. For 10 points—name this
English thinker whose Two Treatises of Government influenced the American Revolution.
*john locke
In one show that airs on this network, a company named Pied Piper wins a “Disrupt Cup” for creating a
compression algorithm. This network that airs Silicon Valley also broadcasts a show based on
books by George R. R. Martin. For 10 points—name this cable network that airs Game of Thrones.
*hbo
The Kara-Bogaz-Gol is an eastern lagoon of this body of water. The capital city of Baku
juts into the western shore of this body of water, which contains the mouths of the Ural and
Volga Rivers. Azerbaijan , Russia, and Kazakhstan all border—for 10 points—what
“sea” in central Asia?
*caspian sea
This man examined the working conditions of miners and people living in the West Midlands in The Road to
Wigan Pier. Syme works on a dictionary of Newspeak in a book by this man depicting Winston
Smithʹs resistance to Big Brother. For 10 points—name this author of Nineteen Eighty‐Four.
*george orwell
Friedrich Bergius won a Nobel prize for developing a method to hydrogenate this substance for liquefaction.   
By compactifying peat, the low‐grade lignite form of this rock is produced. Anthracite 
and ”bituminous” are forms of—for 10 points—what most commonly burned fossil fuel?
*coal
In response to this eventʹs controversial ninth resolution, one participant declared that it “will make us
ridiculous.” This event was organized in response to its plannersʹ poor experiences at the 1840 World
Antislavery Convention, where they had not been permitted to speak. Frederick Douglass attended this
event, which produced the Declaration of Sentiments. For 10 points—name this 1848 womenʹs rights
convention.
*seneca falls convention
This cityʹs Port Jackson, the largest natural harbor in the world, is crossed by a single iconic steel‐arch bridge
nicknamed “The Coathanger.” Bondi Beach is a popular tourist attraction in this city that lies just
north of Botany Bay, where James Cook landed in 1770. Its skyline includes the Harbour Bridge as well as
Jørn Utzonʹs shell‐shaped Opera House. For 10 points—name this most populous city in Australia.
*sydney

